Description: This is a diffusion model implementaion heavily based on the paper "Chip Placement with Diffusion Models". It works by taking in ideally placed models at training data, and diffusing them in the standard DDPM method using a linear noise schedule. During sampling (inference) it uses a form of potential-based guidance to steer the model to place results accoridng to the constraints of (currently) overlap (noted as legality in code) and hpwl. The given a intermediate placement representation x_t, a potential is computng using estimates of hpwl and overlap, then the gradient is taken with respect to x_t, and used to converge to better distributions of results learned during training. No clustering is deployed, but we do plan on adding it. The model itself consists of GATs and traditional attention layers. We also produced a synthetic data generator that produces a placement give certain constaints such as die area and density. It produces a placement, then generates a netlist (2-pin edges version) based on it. This means the model during inference only really needs a netlist and does utilize the inital positions of the cells. As for handling the additional features of IO pins and macros, the model currently fails to take these into account, even though the data generator produces macros placements and IO pins. The plan is to modify the potential funciton to using a similar overlap score as currently used, as well adding a congestion estimator too. For the IO pins, some sort of score could be geneated based on distance between it and its connected instaces. Also tail and head cell/macro/io type can be features added to the edge matrix.

Currently the code implementation attempts to mirror the many aspects in the paper, but the code itself does not stem the paper we could not find any associated repository.
